# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set.

This repository contains the following files:
- README.md provides an overview of the data set and how it was created.
- tidy_data.txt, which contains the data set.
- CodeBook.md, describes the contents of the data set (data, variables and transformations used to generate the data).
- run_analysis.R, the R script that was used to create the data set.

This project is based on the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set, which involved 30 volunteers aged between 19 and 48. The volunteers performed six activities while wearing a Samsung Galaxy on their waist.
The smartphone's accelerometer and gyroscope captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a consistent rate of 50Hz. The experiments were recorded on video to manually label the data. The dataset was divided randomly into two sets, with 70% of the volunteers contributing to the training data and 30% to the test data.
To preprocess the sensor signals, noise filters were applied, and then the signals were sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 seconds with a 50% overlap (128 readings per window). The accelerometer signal was separated into body acceleration and gravity using a Butterworth low-pass filter, assuming that the gravitational force only had low-frequency components (0.3 Hz cutoff frequency).
From each window, a feature vector was generated by calculating variables from the time and frequency domains. The training and test data were merged to create a single dataset. From the original 561 measurements, the mean and standard deviation measurements were extracted (resulting in 79 variables).
Finally, the measurements were averaged for each subject and activity, resulting in the final dataset.

The R script (run_analysis.R) is used to fo the following: Merging the training and the test sets into a single data set. Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names. Create a second, independent tidy set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. Write the data set to the tidy_data.txt file. The tidy_data.txt in this repository was created by running the run_analysis.R script using R version 2023.03.0+386 on Windows 8.1 64-bit edition.
